---
published: false
---
## Code Review Paper summary - Part 3

* **Title**: [On-Demand Developer Documentation](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~martin/papers/icsme2017nier-od3.pdf.pdf)
* **Authors**: Martin P. Robillard, Andrian Marcus, Christoph Treude,
Gabriele Bavota, Oscar Chaparro†, Neil Ernst, Marco Aure ́lio Gerosa∥, Michael Godfrey,
Michele Lanza, Mario Linares-Va ́squez††, Gail C. Murphy, Laura Morenox, David Shepherdxi, and Edmund Wong

* **Tags**: Documentation, Summarazation
* **Year**: 2017



# What

* They explored the existing research and current challenges in the On-Demand Developer Documentation (OD3) field.
*  an OD3 system would automati- cally generate high-quality documentation in response to a user query
* he OD3 system would use a combination of knowledge extraction techniques on different software artifacts in order to generate proper documentation.

# Motos

* In this research _developer documentations_ are refered to artifacts like, source code comments, tutorials and ref- erence documentation for application programming interfaces (APIs), and design documentation. 
* Eventhough, the documentation is an essential resource for creating and maintaining software systems, but it suffers from two fundamental limitations.
	1. They are costly to create and maintaine.
    2. non-executable artifact whose presence and correctness are not technically critical.
       
* So, it seems reasonable to have a OD3 system to assist developer. Since, most of community and company treat documentation as a low priority task.

# Challenges

The existing challenges could divided in three main part. This is mainly because OD3 system requires advances in three areas. 
	
1. advances in **information inference** are needed to derive, find, or link information useful to developers from different types of information elements.

2. developers must be able to form a **document request** based on an incomplete or even incorrect understanding of these needs.

3. an OD3 system must be able to perform**document generation**to produce high-quality documents that address the information needs of developers.

### information inference:

* Establishing Precise Links Between Artifacts:
	* can not simply use classic information extraction technique. the statistical nature of text-based information retrieval coupled with the technical nature of software engineering artifacts usually means that the results are not always fine-grained and accurate.
   	* an OD3 systems need to have complex technique to link different fine-grined arftifacts.
    
    * _software traceability_ techniques which aim to find links between high-level and low-level artifacts are not applicable for OD3 since they require a manualy validation step by human analyst.
    * _Feature location_ tools can be used in OD3 systems to establishing links between a high-level feature (concern, or requirement) and the corresponding source code. But they do not provide any explanation along with linked code snippet! Adding these explanation require an additional level of information integration.
	*  _Resolution techniques_ have been shown to precisely link code elements mentioned in a variety of contexts, from tutorials to Stack Overflow posts
    
* Inferring Undocumented Properties:
	
    * Many important pieces of information that developer needs like program properties are neither explicitly documented nor easily extractable. 
    * There are some technique to address this issue but they require a huge amonth of customization.
    * One potential reason for customization requisite is the almost universal problem of false positives generated by data mining techniques applied to software systems. Specifi- cally, inference techniques will infer any property supported by the data, whether it is sensible to a developer or not.
    * OD3 research has the potential to improve the usability of property inference techniques if make use of the context which the OD3 systems might used.

* Discovering Latent Abstractions and Rationales:
	* a mature OD3 system must be able to produce abstractions and rationale, and not be limited to extracting facts and .
    * an OD3 system must combine different artifact and come up with a relevant abstraction.
    
    
### Document Request

The challenge here is that developer may not have complete understanding about what they are asking for, or even they might have a wrong perception.
Another challenge is different developers background.

* Expressing Information Needs:
	* An OD3 system should understand the technologies that a developer is using along with their documentation and interdependencies, as well as the developer’s objective.

* Capturing Task Context:
	* OD3 system can build upon task context, defined as the program elements and relationships relevant to completing a particular task.
    * The application of natural language processing to artifacts produced by software developers (e.g., method names , issue trackers, or documentation) appears to be the most promising research direction for capturing and understanding task context.
    
* Personalization:
	* An OD3 system could learn implicitly from the queries that a developer makes, using queries as a proxy for a knowledge gap of a particular developer, or by explicitly asking developers what they know.
    
* Awareness of Available Information: 
	* A particular challenge is the vocabulary gap that exists between documentation producers and consumers

	* Structured queries, semantic search [40], indexing of the available documentation, and content-sensitive auto-complete interfaces could be employed! but they dont have a good perception of developers needs.

### Document Generation
In this phase OD3 systems need to combined different information from different artifact to come up with useful documentation for developer.

* Selection:
	* What makes this problem particularly difficult is that the selection criteria depend on the task context and the specific information need of the developer.
    * implementation. Existing research in generating documentation, has focused on context independent approaches and typically generates generic documentation, based on builtin heuristics.
* Summarization and Synthesis:
	* A second challenge is deciding how many of the selected documentation elements should be included in the documentation.
    * Like other sections the developer context could be challenging to address!
    * Summarizing base on directly extracting info from artifact has been addressed! but there was not much work on abstracting those information.
    
* Presentation:
	* Existing research focused on producing hierarchical documents that reveal information at lower abstraction level on-demand, via interaction with the user.
    

# Conclusion
This research aimed to discuss direction and challenges in the way of developing OD3. They mention some of the challenges which have to address in the future! 




    
    
    













